Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today Allah and I are here with Shiram
Krishnan, a top White House official
currently serving as the senior White
House policy adviser on artificial
intelligence. A former tech executive
and venture capitalist. He's one of the
lead authors on the American AI action
plan released this past week. We talk
about the national implications of the
AI race, what position we hold today,
the workforce and energy needs of the
future, and how to win.
>> Jerham, thank you so much for joining us
today for no prior.
>> Thank you for having me. I'm long-term
fan, never been invited before. I was
always a bit sad, but no, thank you for
having me for the very first time. And
before I just have to point out for
folks who are listening on audio that
Elad has never looked as good, as
dashing, as handsome as he does now.
Eli, you've dressed up for me. I'm
honored. This is how you can tell that
Shriama is in politics now. He has the
liquid tongue of gold with which he
coaxes everybody into doing his bidding.
So it's very good. So you know for our
audience has been a well-known Silicon
Valley individual. He worked at Andrew
Horowitz. He worked at a number of the
sort of marquee companies and names in
Silicon Valley over the last decade plus
and now he's in government and he's
really working on a variety of exciting
initiatives around AI and other areas.
Could you tell us a little bit more
about your role and should we be calling
you your excellency or is there some
special title we should be using now
that you're in government?
>> You don't have to, but I will take it.
But no, thank you. It's fascinating for
me to be here talking to you in this
capacity because I've known both of you
for forever and ever. You know, we've
had hundreds or of interactions and also
been such a fan of the pot.
Congratulations. Just a little bit of
backstory, I've been in Silicon Valley
for a long time. I feel very old. Uh I
did a tour of all the large consumer
social media companies and then um I was
at Andre Horowitz for the last four
years uh competing actively for CDZA
term sheets with both of you folks I'm
sure and all this while I had no real
intention of joining government. I
wasn't very particularly interested in
policy. But what what wind up happening
is a couple of years ago I moved to
England to head up all of Andre's
international efforts and at the time
the UK was kind of a hotbed of all the
AI policy debates. they had this AI
safety summit uh at Bletchley Park and
this is kind of the peak of I would say
the effective altruist versus the EAC
kind of drama which is going on and and
I got pulled into a lot of those
discussions and I remember thinking to
myself like wow a lot of people who are
in very senior roles in governments in
the United States back then uh and in
other parts of the world didn't know
what they were talking about when it
came to AI. uh I was convinced that they
were doing the absolute wrong thing on
many topics for example open source or
helping startups and it was just really
really bad in a way which I think the
industry didn't really appreciate until
much later and that got me interested
into just policy which by the way was a
word which I didn't even understand what
it means we didn't even get into what
that means but I got got me interested
in policy when President Trump got
inaugurated in the first week he did two
things one he rescended the Biden
executive order on AI I which was bad
and awful in many many ways which we can
get into. And then he signed a new
executive order which basically said
that America should dominate and win on
AI. And he then he called upon a few of
us to say you guys need to come up with
a plan within 6 months to figure out how
America is going to dominate and win.
And so that put us off for the races.
And I think everything that has happened
since then culminated in the event that
we had yesterday where we put together
you know we put out this long document
28page document on America's action plan
with a bunch of exegoers. So so that's
kind of the little bit of history.
>> That's great. And could you tell us a
little bit more about what the main
things that you considered as you put
together this plan were? What are the
things that you worry about
geopolitically? How do you think about
AI and competition? Big tech versus
small tech. like it feels like there's a
lot of threads in that and it'd be great
just to get a view of what are the main
the main issues that created this plan
and then it'd be great to talk through
the plan itself.
>> One of the catalytic moments which
happened was the day before I started
this job. I get a call and this was the
weekend deepseate came out and there's
actually some chatter that I've heard
online that the China timed it so it can
come out right after the president got
sworn in and we were like hey we just
want you to come in and brief a lot of
people at the White House on deepseek
because we like hey what is this? Is it
cheaper? Is it faster? Do do they have
some magic way of training these models
which only cost a few million bucks and
not you know hundreds of millions of
dollars? What's going on? You folks
might remember that narrative which
existed that weekend. And so I got to go
and you know me and David helped brief
all of the White House leadership but it
was really a starting gun because I
think that moment was profound because
it immediately told us a few things. It
told us that America doesn't have a huge
lead on AI. It actually has a very very
small lead. If you remember at the time,
DeepSseek was the only reasoning model
which was not open AI. I don't think
claude had come out with a reasoning
model yet. I don't think uh Google had
yet. It was the only nonopen AAI
reasoning model. It was very high up in
the leaderboards. It was a bit unclear
as to what their cost claims were and
how they had gotten there. I think we
know a lot better.
>> Yeah. And all that all that ended up
turn turning out to be very overstated,
right? Like basically there was a claim
that was a few million dollars to train
the model and they didn't really talk
about the hundreds of millions of
dollars are probably spent to get to
that point. It's sort of the last
training run you know was sort of what
they paid for. Yeah.
>> Yes. Absolutely. I think I would say
there were claims were inflated and the
claims we take seriously. The claims
were inflated was to your point they
kind of I would say they put out like
the final training run and as all the
ablations and training costs and I if
you look at the paper by the way I don't
think they make the claim that the total
cost was few million bucks. I think
that's what the press imputed but I do
think they deserve a lot of credit. I
always make a point to say look Deepsec
did some very very good technical work.
If you think about didn't they didn't
have as good hardware as the American
model companies do. What they do with KB
caching MLA you know there's some you
know multiple theories on how they
actually got chain of thought. Maybe
they did by themselves maybe they had
some help from American companies but
there was some really novel new work
there right and I think it told us that
okay we don't we don't have a lead that
we can take for granted. They were
definitely the best open source model.
So that and I think to even today I
would probably say the Chinese models
Deep Sea Quinn are the best open source
models but symbolically it told us that
we are now in a race in a very close
race by the way.
>> What does it mean to win the AI race
like why why do we need to win that and
what like what would losing mean how we
know we've won? Well, I suspect you
folks agree AI might be the most
transformational economic cultural force
of our lifetime. And I believe that if
the country or the ecosystem which winds
up getting ahead is going to have these
cyclic effects, right? like you're going
to, you know, you're going to power
productivity, you're going to have drug
discovery, you're going to, you know,
discover uh new material sciences, new
technologies, which then feed back into
your infrastructure, feed back into your
economy, and you're going to get this
flywheel effect where whoever winds up
getting ahead could wind up really
accelerating ahead in kind of a classic
network effect ecosystem way that all of
us in Silicon Valley will understand.
Now, that is purely on the civilian
economic context. You can also imagine a
military context, right? Think about
everything from drones to autonomous
weapons. I'm pretty sure it's not in our
best interest to have another country
have that same economy of scale and
flywheel and race ahead of us. So that's
the race. Now one interesting question
that we've been pondering which we can
get into is how do you actually measure
what it means? How are we doing in the
race? And one measure I've been playing
around with and maybe I want to get your
take on is I think Google just announced
this morning uh that they inference one
quadrillion tokens a month or quad I
forget which one and one of the measures
I've been thinking about is let's say
the world inferences I don't know maybe
it's called 10 quadrillion tokens a
month we don't know what the number is
right what share of those tokens are
being inferenced on American hardware on
American models right and how do we
maximize that market share And that's
kind of one of the mental models I've
been playing with. And it's in a way you
can think about it as we are America
Inc. We have a product stack starting
from GPUs with Nvidia and AMD and a
bunch of others. We have a model layer
with obviously OpenAI and Grock and
Gemini and many many others. We have an
application layer. You've had many many
of them on your podcast from agents to
all kinds of software. How do we make
sure this American stack is dominating
that market share of tokens in principle
good method? Yeah, it's really
interesting because the one other thing
that you didn't mention I feel is the
cultural exportation through the models.
And so if you look at prior waves of
sort of culture spread, it was the movie
industry, it was social media and then
now it's these models because a lot of
people go to these models as a tr a
source of truth for history, for
information, for other things. And there
have been some famous examples in some
of the Chinese models where there's a
mission of Tian Square, a mission of
other facts. And relatedly, there's some
things in some of the US models that
seem very politically slanted or
otherwise not quite great. But it's
interesting to also think about it from
the perspective of broader cultural
exports. I just wanted to add that to
your points on defense and scientific
progress in other areas. I think that's
another key thing. It's actually
something we actually addressing and
you're absolutely right like I grew up
uh in India and a lot of my exposure to
western culture was in the internet and
Google and obviously a lot part of the
internet was American and you know that
kind of introduced me to Americana and
imagine if 1995 the internet was not
done by America but run by one of our
adversaries and so in a similar context
you're abstract when deep sea came out I
think there all these great examples of
lots of stuff in there which doesn't
probably align to American values Now we
are actually addressing this. President
signed an executive order yesterday. Uh
it's called no woke AI in the federal
government. And what it does and you
know this is probably going to be uh one
of the spicy uh bits for your audience
is that it basically says that look from
the day one of the Trump administration
we have tried to fight back against DI,
you know, wokeness, critical race
theory, whatever you want to call it in
all parts of the federal government,
right? and all kinds of propaganda. And
what this EO does is actually very
simple. It says that all models that the
federal government will procure, aka
your taxpayer dollars will be spent on
has to do two things. They have to be
truth seeeking and they can't have
artificial ideological bias added. If
bias is added, you just have to be
transparent about where you're getting
that bias from. It should be very simple
for both people. But to your point, you
know, that cuts to the heart of u, you
know, if you're saying nothing happened
in Tenement Square in 19, you know, in
the early '9s, that cuts to the heart of
that. It also cuts to the heart of many,
many other things in the from the
culture wars that we have now been
trying to fight against.
>> Hey Ram, you used to work in social
media for a long time, right? Uh, like
this sounds a little bit familiar in
terms of like is it a platform, is it a
publisher, what is the information
consumption that most consumers have?
Like where does that analogy apply or
break down? It's a good question. I
think in some ways that's for the
industry and the ecosystem to answer a
bit. You're right. I I spent a lot of
time at Facebook now Meta at Twitter.
One of the things I saw when I was at
Twitter was how easily you could inject
cultural bias in your algorithms. I have
so many stories about how if you pick
the right kind of Twitter accounts which
then feed into the trending algorithm
which then feed into Twitter moments and
then which every journalist or editor
will wake up and next thing you know
it's like one of the news stories of the
land and BuzzFeed will write a piece
saying people on the internet are
talking about this. I saw this over and
over again and it left me with this
profound appreciation of how algorithms
can shape culture and you know one of
the things I always say is Twitter or X
is the mmetic battleground upon which we
fight a lot of these ideological
battles. So when it comes to AI, I think
it's probably going to be very similar.
Like my kids use chat GPT to answer
everything right from history to
geography to, you know, just kind of
silly kids questions. And you can easily
imagine a world where people inject
their own cultural biases into this. And
you know, in the EO, we have a few good
examples. We have, you know, we have
examples of the Poke being seen as a
black person, misgendering someone,
being seen as worse than thermonuclear
explosion. uh and a lot of it is meant
to say that you can easily imagine a
world where these systems which are at
the heart of so many things that the
government is going to use we're always
going to use we don't want them
artificially injected with an ideology
at least without being transparent about
it
>> what are some of the other main points
of the announcement from yesterday
>> so one of the ways David and I try to
think about this with some of the people
work on is is it should be it should
make sense as a strategy for almost like
a technology company and I hope that you
know I please go read the document
It's actually pretty readable and you
know and hopefully for those of you who
work in the tech industry it should kind
of make sense and we think if America is
going to win the race with China they
needs to do three things and they ladder
up to the strategy. The first is we need
to build infrastructure right at the
heart of this if you kind of go back to
the scaling loss what do we need we need
comput computation we need data and in
the United States it's been really
challenging with the grid we have with
kind of this crazy permitting that we
have around uh constructing new data
centers to get some of these projects
off the ground so the first part of the
action plan really dives into what the
president calls build baby build kind of
playing on drill baby drill which is all
about how do we make sure we are
building infrastructure because
obviously you know some of the other
countries are and just as an example one
of the things it talks about is to make
permitting on federal land a lot easier
for data centers when it comes to old
environmental laws or other regulations
which get in the way. So think of that
of like let's make sure we are building
the infrastructure to power these models
uh as we scale up. So that's number one.
The second pillar is innovation which I
would kind of say as let's make sure uh
all these amazing companies everyone
that you know of and you know or maybe
some companies which don't exist yet can
build applications and models or
anything they want as fast as they can
and what we're trying to do is to a
couple of things I really want to
highlight. The first is we want to cut
through red tape. You know like until
last a year and a half ago I was in
California along with all of you.
California almost passed SB 1047 which
if that had happened it would have been
the end of open source by the way in the
United States. We would not have a
llama. we not have an oven mini coming
out and um and a lot of states which
want to do versions of this and we think
that AI is a national priority and if
you're going to compete with China we
need to make sure that these are things
that we take deal with at the national
level rather than every single state uh
especially states which have ideologies
that you know you and I may not agree on
um you know try and set their own rules
uh and by the way some people may not
understand this I understand this if you
have a small state set rules it can
often become the de facto law for the
country because if you're a company
you're like well I have to operate in
the state or I have an office so let me
just do that for everybody kind of just
like the EU does that so we want to make
sure cut through red tape let's make
sure there's regulation it happens at
the federal level so that's very very
key because I think that's going to
enable not just the big companies but
every series A series B actual hire
companies whatever the kids are doing
these days you know we make sure that
they are off the list that's number one
the second part is open source Now, I
think we probably talked about this a
bit offline. Open sour was one of the
big reasons I actually got into the
policy world. The Biden administration
really really tried to scare people
about open source. Talk about how unsafe
it was. SB 1047 obviously tried to kind
of basically ban it in many ways. And
what the EO does is say like open source
is a space where the United States needs
to win. It actually points to some
resources that is going to be made
available to research because I think
you and I know open source is the way
everyone from a kid in a in their
bedroom or their dorm room all the way
to a startup to all the way to somebody
who wants a you know lower cost of
inference in their IoT device or robotic
startup that's what they're using
>> for context too much of the internet
runs on open source software right so
the server software and other things
much of that is open source the
protocols are all open for the internet
uh that's also true for crypto and so
you know it's interesting Because
removing open source from things like AI
actually just centralizes power, right?
It centralizes power into a small number
of companies that could then be
controlled by the government. And so to
some extent, the fact that you all are
supportive of open source means you
actually are supportive of a thousand
flowers blooming, but also a lack of
direct government control in literally
everything AI. So it's a very
interesting uh counter stance to take.
>> By the way, Enard has our talking points
better than I have because that is
absolutely right. One very fundamental
difference I think we have with the
Biden administration is the Biden team
really looked as AI as something to be
centralized and controlled. Everything
was about how do we make sure that we
regulate these three or four companies
and only three or four companies can
build AI. They got to submit their
models for testing. It was all about
control in a centralized fashion. Now
when I moved to DC, one of the things I
realized is that's kind of the way DC
thinks which is control and centralized
in one place. You and I know that's not
how Silicon Valley thinks. And one of
the ways, one of the reasons Silicon
Valley is the envy of the world is
because anybody any day can go to a Y
cominator seed round or raise or just go
off to the races and they could just
build something amazing and it catches
everyone's imagination. And I think what
we want to do is enable just that rather
than say, okay, we want to centralize
power, you know, within a 10 mile radius
of where I am right now.
>> Yeah. In general, too, central planning
tends to lead to very bad economic
outcomes. And so that's the collapse of
the Soviet Union, etc. And so it's it's
it's it's something that's been tried
many times before in many industries and
it tends to lead to a very bad place in
terms of innovation, in terms of
economics.
>> I think one of the things that people
like underpric about open-source models
is they're going to happen and it's a
strategic weapon. They're happening and
Western companies are using Chinese open
source models very broadly already. And
and so like if you believe that like not
every model is going to be ideologically
like neutral or you know aligned with
American and democratic values um then
you probably have a problem right and so
the the ability to like support you know
whatever your point of view like
pluralism and openness and innovation um
and have some control of like as a as an
ecosystem versus in a centralized way is
is a very different point of view than
like you know we'll let China develop
it.
>> Yes. And I think you're making a
profound point and you're already seeing
that where when somebody's using
Deepseeker or Quinn that's an expression
of soft power and I think I would much
rather have you know them using a model
built by somebody who kind of agrees
with us and has our values. That's
number one. The other issue I would
point to is that these models we don't
know what's inside them.
Interpretability is still a naent field
and you could very easily see ways where
you plug a model into a cursor or
windsurf and you generate a piece of
code and then two years down the road it
turns out that code had a little if
statement saying if I'm running in some
piece of critical infrastructure go do
something else and we don't have ways to
validate all that and so a lot of
reasons why we want to make sure that
our American models or western models
wind up winning and this is something I
think we were going to put a lot of
focus
Just because you have such a good view
into this, can we talk a little bit
about infrastructure and energy since
you kind of made that like point number
one in terms of what what sort of stack
we mean? Like people hear these claims
from the leaders of the large labs that,
you know, we're building a data center
the size of Manhattan or, you know, it's
the energy that a a city uses in any
point. Can you contextualize like how
much capacity we really need to build
and sort of like what the biggest
bottleneck is like? Is it is it the
grid? Is it sources? Is it workforce?
It's like you know when you want to
solve this problem like as a systems
person like what is the first problem?
>> Okay. So the first thing I would say is
it is a system and this system was one
that wasn't really battle tested for
decades. Somebody showed me this number.
I think the United States basically had
like 1 to 2% of power usage growth for a
very very long period of time. And so
you can imagine this whole system of
everything from gas turbines, coal,
renewable energy. There was regulation
which kind of really stopped nuclear and
then you had these first state utility
companies which often didn't have the
incentive to innovate. You basically
kind of ran the state. You weren't
really you know getting new demand or
competition. You had a grid which wasn't
really pushed because again you didn't
need to and then you have essentially a
patchwork of environmental laws
regulation everything from water to
emission to a whole other sort of things
which I'm sure I'm forgetting. Right. So
somebody kind of explains to me as kind
of this tangled spaghetti mess of things
which again until two years ago was just
fine because you and I were not
dramatically using more energy than what
we were doing 10 years ago. Now that
obviously changed the scaling laws
arrived and everybody is trying to build
new things and I think the way we are
trying to attack it is at every single
step of the way which is one is how do
you make generation better second is how
do we make sure we make constructing
these data centers better making it
easier to kind of these regulations and
kind of get these red tape out of the
way making sure we put focus on the
right energy sources and making sure
like you know we have those lined up. So
we trying to take an approach to all of
this but it is a complicated problem
just because there is so many different
players so many different states and so
many different patchwork of laws and
regulations involved but I think what
you know I encourage folks to look at
the executive order yesterday which the
president signs on infrastructure which
I think is going directly at this. We
also have something called the National
Energy Dominance Council which works
very closely with Secretary Bergam and
Secretary Wright you know for interior
energy and I think you're going to see a
lot more from us on that front. The
short answer Sarah is it's complicated.
I think we we're taking a very very
strong approach to this but there's
going to be more to come. How do you
think um energy infrastructure is going
to feed into these big data center
buildouts? And so, you know, one theory
I heard is that fiber is cheap and easy
to lay while grid is hard building out
the electrical grid. And so therefore,
you're going to centralize data centers
near sources of cheap power and then you
just run, you know, fiber into them
versus moving things around based on,
you know, other types of uh capacity
from a telecommunications other
perspective. Are there specific sources
of energy that you think are going to
power this AI revolution? Are there
things we need to reinvest in?
Obviously, the president has issued some
executive orders around nuclear.
>> I'm just sort of curious how you think
about what that future really will be
and what are the major sources of energy
that we really need to be dependent on
and how does that all shape up from an
infra perspective.
>> What I think we see our role as is like
get rid of the red tape. Let's make sure
the permitting on these things are super
easy. Nuclear, that's another case where
I think for decades and decades the
climate lobby and the doomers that kind
of stop any real efforts over there. So,
I think we seeing a lot of effort. Let's
get the r let's get the red tape out of
the way. Let's get construction going
and see where we get.
>> The other thing that I think is
interesting from an infrastructure
perspective is manufacturing capability
and supply chain and a subset of AI
supply chain is dependent on China or
other countries. Are there certain areas
of supply chain that we should be
repatriating back or how should we be
thinking about more generally American
manufacturing?
>> I say that America needs not just
engineers but it needs people up and
down the stack. It needs electricians,
technicians. We need to get construction
going and we need to get these jobs and
this whole ecosystem back in back in the
US. So if you look at the action plan,
there's a bunch of stuff in there about
this. I think I mentioned two parts of
the action plan which is building and
then innovation on cutting out red tape
and open source and the president also
talked a little bit about uh
copyrighters today. The third piece of
the app action plan which I also think
is a pretty dramatic switch away from
how the Biden folks thought about it is
around making sure the world uses our
standards and our technology. So just
for context and again this is something
unless you are a policy wonk you may not
be super familiar with. Uh under the
Biden era there was something called the
Biden diffusion rule which basically was
a 200page document which basically made
it illegal for America to export GPUs.
it was really hard for uh you know if
you're Jensen or if you're Lisa Sue to
really kind of get your GPUs out to
other countries even some of our allies
who want to who are really enthusiastic
about AI and they want to help us out
but we're not actually giving them GPUs.
So we listened that order and one of the
things we talk about is how do we make
sure that we get all of our allies
around the world using the American
stack. So that means how do we make sure
um and we just did this in the Gulf with
the American AI accolation partnerships.
How do we make sure we are getting our
GPUs over and one of the advantage of
doing that is we get our GPUs over we
probably get them to run our models as
opposed to models from you know another
country and we go from there. So having
this sense of an American stack that we
can export and the world standardizes on
that's I would say is a third part of
the action plan. One other topic that I
think people believe that China has a
lead in right now is certain areas of
robotics that could be human form or
other. It's drones. It's potentially
catching up on self-driving and
autonomy. So if you think about that
both from a societal perspective, it's
obviously automotive. So if you look at
European market share of cars, BYD and
others are really taking enormous
amounts of share. And if you look at
these, these are the same technologies
that would also be used from a defense
perspective. And so to some extent, one
could argue that there's two parts of
AI. There's the digital forum side of it
and then there's the real world robotics
and drones and interactive side. How do
you think about that in the context of
American policy and what what in the
action plan addresses that capabilities
to build these physical world products?
>> The action plan actually has a section
in it of making sure you know we are set
up for robotics. I think that's
obviously that's going to get super key
within the next 18 to 24 months. I would
say it ladders from everything else that
we talked about uh both in the US and
internationally. The first is making
sure that our model companies can
actually build as fast as they can. Um
our startups can go innovate as fast as
they can. The second piece I would say
is we want to make sure that the world
is using our robotics companies and our
models and not uh say deepseek or quen.
And that's actually one of the things we
do because if when I was talking to a
bunch of robotic startups, you're seeing
a lot of distilled deepseek a lot of
distilled quen out there and what we
want to do is to make sure that we have
an open source response and American
response which pushes our products as a
standard out there. But you know it is a
focus I think it's going to increasingly
come into focus uh in the next say 6
months to 12 months and we spending a
lot of time on it. Related to that,
there's always a question of how do
things actually get done in in politics
and how does it translate into the real
world? And I think, you know, you've
gotten something like 90 different
agency actions listed in this action
plan and how do you think about these
things actually translating into
industry, the economy, action by
companies and other players like what
what are the mechanisms that you all
have to sort of uh ensure that these
things come together or happen? And if
they don't come together, what's what's
plan B?
>> Well, there is no plan B. We want to get
this done. And I think one of the things
about the Trump administration, you'll
see is that the administration moves
really, really fast, you know, which is
why in the first week we had a bunch of
executive orders. Uh look, we already
worked at all of it. Um we had three
executive orders signed yesterday. One
for infrastructure, one for export,
which kind of ties to a lot of things we
talk about, and one to stop ideology and
wokeness and DEI. And I think you're
going to see a lot more. We are already
at work on um pretty much all of it.
That is no plan B. We're going to go get
this done. And the other part I would
say from yesterday is I've been
inundated with just great response from
the industry. A lot of folks that you
and I know uh who are just really
excited to see the government actually
maybe understand AI and is actually
happy to uh you know make sure that
American companies can go build American
AI. So I think they're also very excited
to go partner with us. So it's go go go
no time to waste. We're getting it done.
There is no plan B. It's actually
exciting because I think to your point
on understanding AI and government, when
I've looked at prior administrations, be
them Republican or Democrat, a lot of
the people who went into them from tech
were weren't the core driving forces of
tech in the technology world. In other
words, they get great people, very nice
people, but it wasn't the top of the
industry. It wasn't necessarily the
deepest technical experts in some cases.
Obviously, there's counterexamples to
that. And so, I think one thing that's
striking about this administration is
the caliber of tech people that they
actually got this time around is very
high relative to prior administrations.
So I think uh that impacts on the
understanding. It impacts how you all
are thinking about the world. So I found
that very um exciting and inspiring in
terms of just having a really strong
technical basis for what you all are
doing. So I think that's really good.
>> Thank you. There's a lot of a lot of
great people in the administration tech
industry not just in AI but for example
you have uh Emil Michael you know as
under secretary for R& DRPA in the
Pentagon. You have many many others. You
know, one of the things I think about is
we just bring a understanding of how the
tech industry works, what is possible,
what isn't. We bring a sense of urgency.
We also just really deeply understand
the technology. Like you'd be shocked at
how often I've seen David Saxs in a
meeting explain how inferencing works,
you know, what high bandwidth memory is.
You know, how the world has shifted from
a, you know, pre-training context to a
post-training context. And so we can
just really mix it up on the technical
details. And we obviously also have a
lot of strong social ties to the
industry. So we can call upon them to
help us out. So I think it just adds a
very different flavor of understanding
of AI where again to go to my earlier
point I think DC kind of just suffered
from a lack of real technical
understanding of both the industry and
of the products involved.
>> I'm exposing my cards a little bit here
but it it sounds from both your policies
and what you're saying that you're on
the same page. Do you think that the US
should be like a a a technocracy? Like
if it just that simple statement,
>> what does a technocracy mean?
>> Leading with technology and then having
a bunch of people in technology leading
the country.
>> I'm not sure I would think of it that
way. Um the way I see it is America has
been blessed to have the leading
technology ecosystem of the world and
that is an ecosystem which is in an
intense competition right now and I
think we could have easily lost that
competition and it's still a very very
close race and we need to do everything
we can to protect preserve and extend
our lead but at the end of the day if
you look at this administration we are
still trying to make sure that you know
we serve of the American worker uh the
American workforce that is if you look
at the action plan you know that is at
the heart of everything we do so I don't
think I see it maybe exactly the way you
describe it I see it more as you know we
have something you know technology
ecosystem that is the envy of the world
the president by the way you know when
he was on stage yesterday he talked
about a lot of the inventions that the
United States had made right like we did
the integrated circuit we had shock
invented the transistor we had the fat
children all the way we you know
internet came from us uh we did page
rank and Google uh we did the iPhone and
Cupertino so many of these things that
the world winds up using. So what do we
do to make sure we preserve that lead?
Especially when it comes to AI and if
you look at AI, look, there are so many
potential timelines that AI could take.
I have read AI 2027 from Daniel. Uh I
have read much more optimistic takes on
AI. I think there's going to be an event
horizon beyond which you and I can have
reasonable discussions on how AI could
play out. But in any one of those
scenarios, I want to make sure the
United States is well positioned where
we can take advantage of the
productivity and the science and the
technology breakthroughs that's going to
happen and then be set up for whatever
happens next. So I'm not sure I really
kind of answer the question you phrased
it.
>> No, no, no. You you did. But I was I was
trying to ask the question in a bit of a
triggering way because I think a lot of
people would say like it shouldn't just
be driven by the technologists and like
what good that does that you know do us
in in sort of winning the AI race. But I
I think that's actually a really
profound claim that you made which I I I
hear as like the country that builds the
most capable AI systems they they gain a
lot of upstream control and influence
that has been traditionally very
American, right? And we should all care
about that. like you, you know, use the
examples of accelerating life sciences,
new materials, optimizing industry,
being more efficient in healthcare and
education and things that matter to
every American and like compounding
national wealth. And so I I actually
think that like sometimes a lot of this
discussion becomes like, you know, an
argument about like what parties have
influence versus like what position do
we want to have as a country, right? And
whether or not we want that edge.
>> That's fair. And I think very simply, we
want to win.
>> Yeah. So I I have two questions for you
before we run out of time. One is just
going back to this idea of you being the
strong proponent of open source and open
weights. What is the strongest
counterargument to the people who would
raise concern that the pdoom the
probability that there's some sort of
like cycle of key man risk or you know
some factor of abuse of these powerful
models um increases with open source
models. If you look at the action plan,
it's kind of a manifestation of how we
think about things, right? Like we do
talk a lot about risk. We talk a lot
about having systems in place to
identify cyber risk, bio risk, etc. I
think the difference from the Biden
administration or the folks who talk
about pedum a lot on Lesson is that we
are just inherently more optimistic. If
folks haven't seen it, I encourage them
to watch the vice president's speech in
Paris where he talked about, look, we
want to embrace AI with optimism rather
than fear. And I think one of the things
which happened is that there was such a
lot of fear uh I would say mistakenly
placed on open source. I think there are
two kinds of fears people uh talked
about. One was what you talked about
which is hey what are the risk if these
models could do really really bad
things. The second was hey are we
actually giving away our secrets to
China like um and and what deepseek
showed us is that China are actually
building these models just perfectly
fine just by themselves. and uh it's
actually American models which were far
behind. So uh you know immediately I
think that argument got um refuted on
the P2 question. I think that's a
perfectly fair question and I think we
need to be vigilant about it and the
action plan um talks about it. But we
have to remember we are in a race with
China and there are going to be
catastrophic consequences if Chinese
models are running on every robot, every
camera, every car, every device around
the world and we just got to face that
reality.
>> I think also the people who are driving
the PDM arguments to some extent are
coming from one or two large companies
that have closed source models and so I
think we also forget the incentives of
who's actually pushing for this. It's a
very traditional form of regulatory
capture. If you have a big pharma
company, they work with the government
to prevent other entrance into the
industry. And this is exactly what it
felt like is at least partially
happening in the AI world. Now, that may
be for, you know, perceived altruistic
causes or other things. We're worried
about humanity, but I do think the
reality is a small number of companies
have been kind of pushing this narrative
pretty strongly that open source is is
bad and these are companies that control
the closed source models.
>> Oh, absolutely. I think, you know, I
think there's a but I think there's a
few things going on. One is that you
know people pushing for regulatory
capture. Second is obviously you know
the schools of thought from effective
altruism and a lot of people kind of
worried about this all kind of mixed
together. Here's my rebuttal to that
like I think one of the things that open
source software has shown us on the
internet is that by default open source
is just safer and more secure. Uh what
does Linus law say? More eyes make every
bug shallow. And over the last 20 years
what has the security industry learned?
more scrutiny you put your libraries to,
the more scrutiny you put your browser
rendering engines to, the safer it
becomes. We have seen that time and time
and time again. And I think the same
holds true for open source and open
weights where I sort of you know if you
have a model up on hugging face and
somebody downloads a 500 GB file and the
thousands of students and researchers
just kind of pounding away on that I
think there's a good chance they're
going to find issues a lot better than a
very small safety team uh inside a large
lab. So uh I'm a big fan of open source
sometimes being a lot more secure than
closed source as well.
>> Awesome. Thanks so much Tron.
>> Thank you. Your excellency, your
governorship, your grace. I'm not sure
again what the right title is. Your
policy advisorship.
>> Uh feel free. Right. You know the more
inflated it helps my ego. So thank you.
>> It was your excellency. That's what we
started with.
>> We really appreciate the time today.
You're sure. So thank you for joining.
>> Thank you so much. Such a such an honor,
you know, and uh I love the work you
folks do and thanks for having me.
>> Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way, you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-bers.com.